
# Weekly Log #10

<!-- > *Please address the following items in the weekly logs: 1) Identify the needs for skills and strategies in integrating the concepts and the solutions; 2) Reflect the processes/steps in solving the problems in the project; 3) Report any challenges and possible solutions even if it fails; 4) Make a plan for the next iteration.* -->

**Cory Leigh Rahman** | University of Wisconsin-Madison, Master's in GIS & Web Map Programming, GEOG 777: Capstone in GIS Development

## **1) Skills & Strategies**

I had to use practically all my web development skills in order to finish off Project #2. I drew from training in responsive web design, database design, and full-stack web development. My strategy for the whole project was purpose-first, and writing out user-stories ahead of time really helped keep me on track.

## **2) Processes & Steps**

My process for finishing Project #2 was to complete the application itself first, then the paper, and finally the video. When working on the application I tried to keep cosmetic tweaks towards the end so that they didn't slow me down. I tend to tweak the UI of my applications quite a bit until I'm happy with them, which can be detrimental at times.

## **3) Challenges & Contingencies**

My biggest challenge was dealing with unknown bugs. One issue in particular was preventing me from passing application data to the server, and it took me a long while to realize I was missing middleware that allowed the body of the POST request to actually come through. Another challenge was architecting the Database. I wanted to use a relational style database; however, as I built out the application I realized that there was little need for actual relations, so my database is just a collection of practically unrelated tables at the moment. It works well for data storage, in any case. My contingency, if that does not meet the requirement, will be to re-architect the database for my second go-around of the application at the end of the class.

## **4) What's Next**

Next I will focus on providing feedback to my assigned classmate, as well as addressing any feedback I get. I'm really looking forward to feedback from both the professor and my classmates. I also intend to submit the form allowing my applications/code to be used in future classes, but I haven't done this yet.
