
# Weekly Log #7

<!-- > *Please address the following items in the weekly logs: 1) Identify the needs for skills and strategies in integrating the concepts and the solutions; 2) Reflect the processes/steps in solving the problems in the project; 3) Report any challenges and possible solutions even if it fails; 4) Make a plan for the next iteration.* -->

**Cory Leigh Rahman** | University of Wisconsin-Madison, Master's in GIS & Web Map Programming, GEOG 777: Capstone in GIS Development

## **1) Skills & Strategies**

Organizational, cartographic, and user experience skills were very important this week as I planned for the production of my application. My training in cartographic and user experience design is that users need an easy place to start and a clear place to rest their eyes upon first glance. After conducting research on existing park map applications, I identified that one crucial feature missing from almost all of them is an easy way to get started. To fill this gap, a main feature of my park map will be Recommended Routes layers coupled with descriptions and visitation information.

Initial User Stories:

- As an interested local, I want easy instructions on how to get started
- As a visitor, I want to know where I'm allowed to explore in the park
- As a visitor, I recommendations for things to see within the park
- As a visitor, I want to know where the restrooms and other necessities are
- As a frequent visitor, I want to point out places of interest to others

Initial Planned Map Layers:

1. Walking Paths
2. Recommended Routes
   1. Definitive Visit
   2. Just Here for the Marsh
   3. Long Walk in the Forest
3. User-Submitted Local Favorites
4. Facilities
5. Basemaps
   1. Custom MapBox
   2. Topographic
   3. Imagery

## **2) Processes & Steps**

In order to achieve all these map layers, I'll need to use a combination of services, static data, and created data. In order to create the recommended routes I will need to extract and/or trace them in a GIS software such as QGIS. Then I will be able to include them in the app just like any other static data.

## **3) Challenges & Contingencies**

There are several challenges in including all these layers. Future-proofing is a big question; how can I prevent the map from being too cluttered by local favorites, how can I ensure the data remains updated enough, and how do I show ephemeral walking paths? I will try to rely heavily on trustworthy services where possible, and likely enact some sort of relevance system with a cap of how many Local Favorites can be showed at once.

## **4) What's Next**

Next I will begin designing the database and creating the web application.
